##### [Home](README.md) &nbsp; | &nbsp; [Education](education.md) &nbsp; | &nbsp; [Past Projects](projects.md) &nbsp; | &nbsp; [Work Experience](experience.md) &nbsp; | &nbsp; [Senior Design](sDesign.md) &nbsp; | &nbsp; [Reflections](reflections.md)

# Reflections
When I entered Iowa State University, I'd never written a single line of code. In the 5 years I've been here I've been challeneged to take on problems which I couldn't have imagined as a freshman in order to advance my knowledge and problem solving skills. Iowa State has at least semi-prepared me to design full systems. It seems to be something we don't emphasize much and where it is done it's not done in a way that I felt I was taking away anything useful to the future, but I appreciate the introduction at the very least and I've definitely gained the ability to build pieces of systems sufficiently. Problem solving is something that the university does do a good job at getting us to do. If you are willing to put the work in you'll learn a lot while you're here and naturally develop the skills to deal with problems on your own. I don't know that Iowa State has prepared me to impact engineering solutions in a global context, but it's given me the tools I need to go out and learn how to integrate myself into the workforce which is impacting global engineering solutions.

Iowa State has provided multiple opportunities to work with groups to design systems in a more realistic environment. I've done a semeseter long project in 309, multiple projects in the management course, a year long project for senior design, among others. Courses constantly attempt to explain modern systems or issues that stem from more historical versions of those systems and show how problems can compound or be iteratively fixed over time. Ethical issues have been occasionally mentioned, especially concerning the security courses I've taken where we gain knowledge which can lead to much more easily intentionally or accidentally compromising information of other users.

When working on programming assignments, and sometimes regular homework assignments, the lecture information isn't enough to fully understand and solve the problem we've been presented. When this happens I almost always just turn to Google and find whatever I could on the subject which could lead to me solving whatever piece of the problem has me held up. Rarely, I'd turn to another student or a Teaching Assistant/professor when the solution to my problem seemed to be unobtainable by my first course of action.

In a technological profession like Software Engineering, everything is constantly changing as soon as you learn about it. New technologies, languages, frameworks, systems, etc. are always being built and released to the public. The sheer amount of knowledge out there is impossible for anyone to learn completely in a lifetime. As such, there's a clear need for lifelong learning in order to continue to grow and improve at my job and remain current with the best approaches to problems. This has been especially highlighted in my security courses as the nature of the subject tend to render previous versions dangerously obsolete as fast as new versions can come live.

In looking back at my time at Iowa State, there's almost nothing I'd do differently other than working harder towards my grades my freshman year. One thing that may have been beneficial to me, however, would have been to do more extra-curricular activities. I did almost nothing to advance my learning outside of my courses while a lot of my peers would work on all sorts of projects and clubs and whatnot outside of the classroom. Personally, I'm not a fan of devoting my entire waking life to the subject but doing something at least could've really given me an edge in my understanding and learning self sufficiently.
